Okay. So first let's get familiar with exploring
the tree data structure in scikit-learn or rather the tree class.
So the source code for tree is here and it has
useful comments about the attributes in the tree class.
So once we click on this link to the source code,
I'm going to ask you to search for this text in there,
because that's where you'll see some useful information about the class tree.
So for instance, there's node count,
there's children left and children right,
and you can see I've actually copied this comment into the notebook.
So let's go back to the notebook.
So here, to grab the tree,
we're just going to get the attribute tree underscore.
The tree data are stored in lists.
Okay. Think of these as just arrays.
Each node is also assigned an integer zero,
one, two and so forth.
Each node's value for some attribute is stored at
the index location that equals that nodes assigned integer.
So this will make more sense once we see the example.
So for example, node zero is going to be the root node.
So the root node is going to be assigned the integer zero.
Okay. So the root node is at the top of the tree.
There is a list called children left.
So index location zero contains the left child of node zero.
Okay. So that's essentially what this comment is saying right here.
But we can see this in the code as well.
If you were to just run tree zero dot children left.
Okay, let me type this out,
tree zero is just the name I gave to this variable that stores model dot tree underscore.
Tree zero dot children left,
and you can see at index zero.
You have the value one.
One means that is the node that is the left child of node zero. So I'll read this out.
So in this tree,
the next positions are zero,
one, two, three, and four.
These are the other numbers for identifying each node in the tree.
Node zero is the root node.
Nodes one and two are the left and right child of the root node.
Okay. To see this, you can see at index zero,
you have the number one.
That means that the root nodes left child is node one.
Okay. Then this children right array, at index zero,
you see the number two and that means that nodes zero's right child is node number two.
So that's why I say here, in the list children left at index zero,
we see one, and for children right list at index zero, we see two.
Negative one, which you see a couple of times here,
negative one is used to denote that there's no child for that node.
Node one has no left or right child.
So the children left list at index one we see a negative one.
Similarly in children right at index one,
the value is also negative one.
You can actually see this in the visual of the tree if we scroll back up.
This is node zero,
its left child is node one and you can see it's a leaf node,
so it has no left child and it has no right child.